the design of the  stardust framework is presented in section 3. one  implementation and its performance evaluation are in sections 4 and 5, followed by a suite of system optimization techniques, in section 6. in section 7 we present our conclusions. 
section 2 is an overview of the state of art.
the rest of the paper is structured as follows.
we investigate the range of a system built on our framework by considering realities of physical phenomena that occurs during light propagation through the atmosphere.
we evaluate the  performance of a localization system for which we obtain location accuracies of 2 − 5 ft with a localization duration ranging from 10 milliseconds to 2 minutes.
we develop a sensor node  hardware prototype, called a sensorball.
we propose a constraint-based label relaxation algorithm for mapping node ids to the  locations, and four constraints (node, connectivity, time and space), which are building blocks for very accurate and very fast localization systems.
we propose a novel framework for node localization in wsns that is very promising and allows for many future extensions and more accurate results.
the main contributions of our work are the following.
for inferring the identity of the sensor node present at a particular location, the stardust framework develops a constraint-based node id relaxation algorithm.
through image processing techniques, the locations of the retro-reflectors (i.e., sensor nodes) is  deter57 mined.
an aerial  vehicle projects light onto the deployment area and records  images containing retro-reflected light beams (they appear as luminous spots).
the basic principle of the framework is localization through passivity: each sensor node is equipped with a corner-cube retro-reflector and  possibly an optical filter (a coloring device).
to address these challenges, we propose a framework for wsn localization, called stardust, in which the  complexity associated with the node localization is completely  removed from the sensor node.
on the other hand,  localization schemes that only use the connectivity information for inferring location information are characterized by low accuracies: ≈ 10 ft in controlled environments, 40−50 ft in realistic ones.
solutions that use the radio transceiver for ranging either have not produced encouraging results (if the received signal strength indicator is used) or are sensitive to environment (e.g., multipath).
ultrasound has a short range and is highly directional.
gps ranging hardware consumes energy, it is  relatively expensive (if high accuracy is required) and poses form factor challenges that move us away from the vision of dust size sensor nodes.
on one hand, localization schemes that use ranging are typically high end solutions.
there are several reasons for this.
despite the attention the localization problem in wsn has received, no universally acceptable solution has been  developed.
among these open problems is sensor node  localization, i.e., how to find the physical position of each sensor node.
even after these successes, several research problems remain open.
a major step forward has been accomplished by  developing systems for several domains: military surveillance [1] [2] [3], habitat monitoring [4] and structural monitoring [5].
through collaboration, redundancy and fault tolerance, the wsn is then able to achieve  unprecedented sensing capabilities.
the sensor nodes form a network and collaborate (to compensate for the extremely scarce resources available to each of them: computational power, memory size, communication capabilities) to  accomplish the mission.
one vision is to embed tiny sensor devices in outdoor environments, by aerial  deployments from unmanned air vehicles.
wireless sensor networks (wsn) have been envisioned to revolutionize the way humans perceive and interact with the surrounding environment.
