many military applications have such requirements. 
stardust is meant for localizing air dropped nodes where node  passiveness, high accuracy, low cost, small form factor and rapid  localization are all required.
stardust differs in that it addresses a particular demanding set of requirements that are not yet solved well.
many of the above localization solutions target specific sets of requirements and are useful for specific applications.
a sensor node detects the light beam for a period of time, which is  dependent on the distance between it and the light emitting device.
in a similar manner, the lighthouse system [22] uses a parallel light beam, that is emitted by an anchor which rotates with a certain period.
from the  spatiotemporal knowledge for the created events and the temporal information provided by sensor nodes, nodes" spatial  information can be obtained.
spotlight [21] creates well controlled (in time and space) events in the network while the sensor nodes detect and timestamp this events.
more recently, several localization schemes that exploit the sensing capabilities of sensor nodes, have been proposed.
dv-hop [20] uses the hop by hop propagation capability of the network to forward distances to landmarks.
this, in turn, can be transformed into  distances to nodes with known locations.
the gradient algorithm [19], leverages the knowledge about the network density to infer the average one hop length.
in apit [18] each node decides its position based on the possibility of being inside or outside of a triangle formed by any three beacons within node"s  communication range.
in the centroid localization scheme [17], a sensor node localizes to the centroid of its proximate beacon nodes.
sensor nodes use primarily connectivity information for inferring proximity to a set of anchors.
to address these  challenges, and others (hardware cost, the energy expenditure, the form factor, the small range, localization time), several range-free localization schemes have been proposed.
these have been  emphasized by several studies [14] [15] [16].
real environments create additional challenges for the range based localization schemes.
the long time required for localization and multi-path environments pose significant challenges.
the ranging technique performs very well.
the frequencies of the emitters are very close to each other, thus the interfering signal will have a low frequency envelope that can be easily measured.
a very recent, remarkable, localization technique is based on radio interferometry, rips [13], which utilizes two transmitters to create an interfering signal.
a cooperative ranging that  attempts to achieve a global positioning from distributed local optimizations is proposed in [12].
the localization problem is formulated as an on-line state estimation in a  nonlinear dynamic system [11].
in mal [10], a mobile node assists in measuring the distances (acting as constraints)  between nodes until a rigid graph is generated.
a mobile node is  located by the best match, in the signal strength space, with a previously acquired signature.
the radar system [9] uses the rssi to build a map of signal strengths as emitted by a set of beacon nodes.
the pushpin project [8] uses the tdoa between ultrasound pulses and light flashes for node localization.
in [2] the  location of a sniper is determined in an urban terrain, by  using the tdoa between an acoustic wave and a radio beacon.
the cricket location-support system (tdoa) [7] can achieve a location granularity of tens of inches with highly  directional and short range ultrasound transceivers.
ahlos [6] employs a tdoa ranging technique that requires extensive hardware and solves relatively large nonlinear systems of equations.
gps is a costly solution for a high accuracy  localization of a large scale sensor network.
the tof localization technique that is most widely used is the gps.
solutions that use the radio are based on the received signal strength indicator (rssi) and more recently on radio interferometry.
ranging  techniques dependent on hardware are the time-of-flight (tof) and the time-difference-of-arrival(tdoa).
the range-based localization techniques have been  designed to use either more expensive hardware (and hence higher accuracy) or just the radio transceiver.
we present the prior work in localization in two major categories: the range-based, and the range-free schemes.
