on demand, the neighbor table is reported to a base station, where the node id mapping is  performed. 
the code that runs on each node is a simple application which broadcasts 100 beacons, and maintains a neighbor  table containing the percentage of successfully received  beacons, for each neighbor.
the sensor node platform we used was the micaz mote.
64 figure 10. the field in the dark figure 11. the illuminated field figure 12. the difference: figure  10figure 11 higher quality (better mirrors) would translate in more  accurate image processing (better sensor node detection) and smaller form factor for the optical component (an array of ccrs with a smaller area can be used).
for a slightly higher price (ours were 20cents/piece), better quality ccrs can be employed.
we had 5 colors available, in addition to the standard ccr, which reflects all the  incoming light (white ccr).
a reflective effect is achieved by employing finely polished plastic surfaces.
the reflectivity of each ccr (there are tens molded in the plastic container) is extremely low, and each ccr is not built with mirrors.
we remark here the low quality of the ccrs we used.
the ccrs that we used were inexpensive, plastic molded, night time warning signs commonly available on bicycles, as shown in figure 9(b).
the self-righting capabilities are necessary in order to orient the ccr predominantly upwards.
for sensor nodes we built a custom sensor node, called sensorball, with self-righting capabilities, shown in figure 9(a).
the central device of the stardust system consists of the following: the light emitter - we used a  common-off-theshelf flash light (qbeam, 3 million candlepower); the  image acquisition was done with a 3 megapixel digital camera (sony dsc-s50) which provided the input to the image  processing algorithm, implemented in matlab.
for our performance evaluation we implemented a version of the stardust framework, namely the one proposed in section 3.3.5, where the constraints are based on color and connectivity.
the stardust localization framework, depicted in figure 2, is flexible in that it enables the development of new  localization systems, based on the four proposed label  relaxation schemes, or the inclusion of other, yet to be invented, schemes.
