nevertheless, we remark on the suitability of our localization framework for rugged, non-line-of-sight environments. 
this would require that sensor nodes posses self-righting capabilities, while in mid-air.
by recording the last visible position of a sensor node (as seen from the aircraft) a reasonable estimate of the sensor node location can be obtained.
the hope, and our  original idea, was to consider the time period between the aerial deployment and the time when the sensor node disappears under the canopy.
canopies, dense vegetation, extremely obstructing environments pose significant  challenges for sensor nodes localization.
6.3 localization in rugged environments the initial driving force for the stardust localization framework was to address the sensor node localization in  extremely rugged environments.
it would be interesting to associate with a node, more than one label (implicitly more than one location) and defer the label assignment decision until events are detected in the network (if the network was deployed for target tracking).
69 6.2 location learning if after several iterations of the algorithm, none of the  label probabilities for a node ni converges to a higher value, the confidence in our labeling of that node is relatively low.
other research directions could be to use voting scheme for deciding which primitive to use or assign different weights to different relaxation  algorithms.
an example of such chain is: color, temporal, spatial and connectivity.
an  interesting research direction to pursue could be to chain more than two of these primitives.
to demonstrate the power that can be obtained by combining them, we proposed and evaluated one  combination of such primitives: color and connectivity.
6.1 chained constraint primitives in this paper we proposed four primitives for  constraintbased relaxation algorithms: color, connectivity, time and space.
in this section we describe extensions of the proposed  architecture that can constitute future research directions.
