Key contributions of this work include: i) an algorithm that sends data to different points in the overlay such that any data object is equally likely to appear at any node, ii) a scalable and decentralized algorithm that allows nodes to locate and recover missing data items, and iii) a complete implementation and  evaluation of Bullet running across the Internet and in a large-scale emulation environment reveals up to a factor two bandwidth  improvements under a variety of circumstances.
Typically, nodes self-organize with the goal of forming an efficient overlay tree, one that meets  performance targets without placing undue burden on the underlying network.
This paper presents Bullet, a scalable and distributed algorithm that enables nodes spread across the Internet to self-organize into a high bandwidth overlay mesh.
For these applications, we argue that an overlay mesh, rather than a tree, can deliver fundamentally higher bandwidth and  reliability relative to typical tree structures.
In this paper, we target high-bandwidth data  distribution from a single source to a large number of receivers.
In Bullet however, nodes simultaneously receive data from multiple sources in parallel, making it less important to locate any single source capable of sustaining a high transmission rate.
In recent years, overlay networks have become an effective  alternative to IP multicast for efficient point to multipoint  communication across the Internet.
We construct Bullet around the insight that data should be distributed in a disjoint manner to strategic points in the network.
In a tree, it is critical that a node"s parent delivers a high rate of application data to each child.
In addition, we find that, relative to tree-based solutions, Bullet reduces the need to perform expensive bandwidth probing.
Categories and Subject Descriptors C.2.4 [Computer-Communication Networks]: Distributed Systems; H.4.3 [Information Systems Applications]:  Communications Applications General Terms Experimentation, Management, Performance 
Individual Bullet receivers are then responsible for locating and retrieving the data from multiple points in parallel.
Applications include large-file transfers and real-time multimedia  streaming.
