general terms algorithms, economics, reliability. 
and society]: electronic commerce; i.2.8 [artificial intelligence]: problem solving, control methods, and search.
the authors wish to thank brahim hnich and the anonymous reviewers for their helpful  comments.
categories and subject descriptors j.4 [social and behavioral sciences]: economics; k.4.4 [computers ∗this work has received support from science foundation  ireland under grant number 00/pi.1/c075.
robust solutions can also provide a means of selectively  discriminating against distrusted bidders in a measured manner.
we also demonstrate experimentally that fewer winning bids partake in robust solutions, thereby reducing any associated overhead in dealing with extra  bidders.
we then examine the trade-off between robustness and revenue in  different economically motivated auction scenarios for different  constraints on the revenue of repair solutions.
secondly, we introduce an auction model that uses a form of leveled commitment contract [26, 27], which we have called mutual bid bonds, to improve solution reparability by facilitating backtracking on winning bids by the bid-taker.
a weighted super solution guarantees that any subset of bids likely to be withdrawn can be repaired to form a new solution of at least a given revenue by making limited changes.
firstly, we use the weighted super  solutions framework [13], from the field of constraint programming, to solve the problem of finding a robust solution.
in this paper, we propose an approach to addressing the  bidtaker"s exposure problem.
when faced with such unreliable bidders, it is preferable for the bid-taker to preempt such uncertainty by having a solution that is robust to bid withdrawal and provides a guarantee that possible withdrawals may be repaired easily with a bounded loss in revenue.
we have called this the bid-taker"s exposure  problem.
given a bid withdrawal in a combinatorial auction, finding an alternative repair solution of  adequate revenue without causing undue disturbance to the  remaining winning bids in the original solution may be difficult or even impossible.
in reality bidders often withdraw winning bids before the transaction when it is in their best interests to do so.
bids submitted in auctions are usually treated as enforceable  commitments in most bidding and auction theory literature.
