This is one of the few known results that shows how to export  approximation algorithms for a multidimensional problem into truthful mechanisms in a black-box fashion.
These are the first truthful mechanisms with non-trivial performance guarantees for a multidimensional scheduling domain.
However, whereas value monotonicity has been used extensively and successfully to design truthful mechanisms in  singledimensional domains, ours is the first work that leverages cycle monotonicity in the multidimensional setting.
Second, our randomized mechanisms are obtained by first  constructing a fractional truthful mechanism for a fractional  relaxation of the problem, and then converting it into a  truthfulin-expectation mechanism.
This builds upon a technique of [16], and shows the usefulness of fractional mechanisms in truthful mechanism design.
Cycle monotonicity [23] is a necessary and sufficient condition for truthfulness, is a generalization of value monotonicity for multidimensional domains.
This is a multidimensional scheduling domain, and the only known positive results for makespan minimization in such a domain are O(m)-approximation truthful mechanisms [22, 20].
We give a general  technique to convert any c-approximation algorithm to a  3capproximation truthful-in-expectation mechanism.
We consider the problem of makespan minimization on m unrelated machines in the context of algorithmic mechanism design, where the machines are the strategic players.
First, we do not utilize or rely on explicit price definitions to prove truthfulness; instead we design algorithms that satisfy  cycle monotonicity.
This preserves the  multidimensionality of the domain, and generalizes the restricted-machines (i.e., {pj, ∞}) setting in scheduling.
When the low and high values are the same for all jobs, we devise a  deterministic 2-approximation truthful mechanism.
Our constructions are novel in two respects.
We study a well-motivated special case of this problem, where the processing time of a job on each machine may either be low or high, and the low and high values are public and job-dependent.
Categories and Subject Descriptors F.2 [Analysis of Algorithms and Problem  Complexity]; J.4 [Social and Behavioral Sciences]: Economics General Terms Algorithms, Economics, Theory 
