We present the prior work in localization in two major
categories: the range-based, and the range-free schemes.
The range-based localization techniques have been 
designed to use either more expensive hardware (and hence
higher accuracy) or just the radio transceiver. Ranging 
techniques dependent on hardware are the time-of-flight (ToF)
and the time-difference-of-arrival(TDoA). Solutions that use
the radio are based on the received signal strength indicator
(RSSI) and more recently on radio interferometry.
The ToF localization technique that is most widely used is
the GPS. GPS is a costly solution for a high accuracy 
localization of a large scale sensor network. AHLoS [6] employs
a TDoA ranging technique that requires extensive hardware
and solves relatively large nonlinear systems of equations.
The Cricket location-support system (TDoA) [7] can achieve
a location granularity of tens of inches with highly 
directional and short range ultrasound transceivers. In [2] the 
location of a sniper is determined in an urban terrain, by 
using the TDoA between an acoustic wave and a radio beacon.
The PushPin project [8] uses the TDoA between ultrasound
pulses and light flashes for node localization. The RADAR
system [9] uses the RSSI to build a map of signal strengths
as emitted by a set of beacon nodes. A mobile node is 
located by the best match, in the signal strength space, with a
previously acquired signature. In MAL [10], a mobile node
assists in measuring the distances (acting as constraints) 
between nodes until a rigid graph is generated. The localization
problem is formulated as an on-line state estimation in a 
nonlinear dynamic system [11]. A cooperative ranging that 
attempts to achieve a global positioning from distributed local
optimizations is proposed in [12]. A very recent, remarkable,
localization technique is based on radio interferometry, RIPS
[13], which utilizes two transmitters to create an interfering
signal. The frequencies of the emitters are very close to each
other, thus the interfering signal will have a low frequency
envelope that can be easily measured. The ranging technique
performs very well. The long time required for localization
and multi-path environments pose significant challenges.
Real environments create additional challenges for the
range based localization schemes. These have been 
emphasized by several studies [14] [15] [16]. To address these 
challenges, and others (hardware cost, the energy expenditure,
the form factor, the small range, localization time), several
range-free localization schemes have been proposed. Sensor
nodes use primarily connectivity information for inferring
proximity to a set of anchors. In the Centroid localization
scheme [17], a sensor node localizes to the centroid of its
proximate beacon nodes. In APIT [18] each node decides its
position based on the possibility of being inside or outside of
a triangle formed by any three beacons within node"s 
communication range. The Gradient algorithm [19], leverages
the knowledge about the network density to infer the average
one hop length. This, in turn, can be transformed into 
distances to nodes with known locations. DV-Hop [20] uses the
hop by hop propagation capability of the network to forward
distances to landmarks. More recently, several localization
schemes that exploit the sensing capabilities of sensor nodes,
have been proposed. Spotlight [21] creates well controlled
(in time and space) events in the network while the sensor
nodes detect and timestamp this events. From the 
spatiotemporal knowledge for the created events and the temporal
information provided by sensor nodes, nodes" spatial 
information can be obtained. In a similar manner, the Lighthouse
system [22] uses a parallel light beam, that is emitted by an
anchor which rotates with a certain period. A sensor node
detects the light beam for a period of time, which is 
dependent on the distance between it and the light emitting device.
Many of the above localization solutions target specific
sets of requirements and are useful for specific applications.
StarDust differs in that it addresses a particular demanding
set of requirements that are not yet solved well. StarDust is
meant for localizing air dropped nodes where node 
passiveness, high accuracy, low cost, small form factor and rapid 
localization are all required. Many military applications have
such requirements.
