For voice this utility impairment is twofold: on one hand, even short bursts of lost packets may decrease significantly the ability of the receiver to conceal the packet loss and the speech signal  playout is interrupted.
We then propose mechanisms which differentiate between packets within a voice data flow to minimize the impact of packet loss.
Categories and Subject Descriptors C.2.4 [Computer Communication Networks]:  Distributed Systems-Distributed applications; (3.2.6 [Computer Communication Networks]: Internetworking-Routers; C.4 [Computer Systems Organization]: Performance of Systems-itJeasun3nent techniques; C.4 [Computer  Systems Organization]: Performance of Systems--Modeling techniques General Terms Design, Measurement, Performance, Reliability 
For high-compressing frame-based codecs (G.729) on one hand the impact of loss is amplified through error propagation caused by the decoder filter memories, though on the other hand such coding schemes help to perform loss concealment by extrapolation of decoder state.
At the end-to-end level, identification of packets sensitive to loss (sender) as well as loss  concealment (receiver) takes place.
Thus, the loss of packets impairs the application-level utility.
Using this  framework, we find that for low-compressing sample-based codecs (PCM) with loss concealment isolated packet losses can be concealed well, whereas burst losses have a higher perceptual impact.
Contrary to sample-based codecs we show that the concealment  performance may break at transitions within the speech signal however.
On the other hand, some packets may be particular sensitive to loss as they carry more important information in terms of user perception than other packets.
As both  packets require the same cost in terms of network transmission, a gain in user perception is obtainable.
We show that  significant speech quality improvements can be achieved and additional data and delay overhead can be avoided while still maintaining a network service which is virtually  identical to best effort in the long term.
Hop-by-hop support schemes then allow to (statistically) trade the loss of one packet, which is considered more important, against another one of the same flow which is of lower importance.
We first develop an end-to-end model based on loss  runlengths with which we can describe the loss distribution within a flow.
We designate these methods as intra-flow loss recovery and control.
Best effort packet-switched networks, like the Internet, do not offer a reliable transmission of packets to applications with real-time constraints such as voice.
These packet-level metrics are then linked to user-level objective speech quality metrics.
