So far, the description of MSP has been solely in the 
context of straight-line scan. However, we note that MSP is 
conceptually independent of how the event is propagated as long
as node sequences can be obtained. Clearly, we can also 
support wave-propagation-based events (e.g., ultrasound 
propagation, air blast propagation), which are polar coordinate 
equivalences of the line scans in the Cartesian coordinate system.
This section illustrates the effects of MSP"s implementation in
the wave propagation-based situation. For easy modelling, we
have made the following assumptions:
• The wave propagates uniformly in all directions, 
therefore the propagation has a circle frontier surface. Since
MSP does not rely on an accurate space-time relationship,
a certain distortion in wave propagation is tolerable. If any
directional wave is used, the propagation frontier surface
can be modified accordingly.
1
3
5
9
Target node
Anchor node
Previous Event location
A
2
Center of Gravity
4
8
7
B
6
C
A line of preferred locations for next event
Figure 11. Example of Wave Propagation Situation
• Under the situation of line-of-sight, we allow obstacles to
reflect or deflect the wave. Reflection and deflection are
not problems because each node reacts only to the first
detected event. Those reflected or deflected waves come
later than the line-of-sight waves. The only thing the 
system needs to maintain is an appropriate time interval 
between two successive localization events.
• We assume that background noise exists, and therefore we
run a band-pass filter to listen to a particular wave 
frequency. This reduces the chances of false detection.
The parameter that affects the localization event generation
here is the source location of the event. The different 
distances between each node and the event source determine the
rank of each node in the node sequence. Using the node 
sequences, the MSP algorithm divides the whole area into many
non-rectangular areas as shown in Figure 11. In this figure,
the stars represent two previous event sources. The previous
two propagations split the whole map into many areas by those
dashed circles that pass one of the anchors. Each node is 
located in one of the small areas. Since sequence-based MSP,
iterative MSP and DBE MSP make no assumptions about the
type of localization events and the shape of the area, all three
optimization algorithms can be applied for the wave 
propagation scenario.
However, adaptive MSP needs more explanation. Figure 11
illustrates an example of nodes" voting for next event source
locations. Unlike the straight-line scan, the critical parameter
now is the location of the event source, because the distance
between each node and the event source determines the rank of
the node in the sequence. In Figure 11, if the next event breaks
out along/near the solid thick gray line, which perpendicularly
bisects the solid dark line between anchor C and the center of
gravity of node 9"s area (the gray area), the wave would reach
anchor C and the center of gravity of node 9"s area at roughly
the same time, which would relatively equally divide node 9"s
area. Therefore, node 9 prefers to vote for the positions around
the thick gray line.