To address these challenges, we propose a framework for WSN localization, called StarDust, in which the  complexity associated with the node localization is completely  removed from the sensor node.
We investigate the range of a system built on our framework by considering realities of physical phenomena that occurs during light propagation through the atmosphere.
On the other hand,  localization schemes that only use the connectivity information for inferring location information are characterized by low accuracies: ≈ 10 ft in controlled environments, 40−50 ft in realistic ones.
The sensor nodes form a network and collaborate (to compensate for the extremely scarce resources available to each of them: computational power, memory size, communication capabilities) to  accomplish the mission.
Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN) have been envisioned to revolutionize the way humans perceive and interact with the surrounding environment.
One  implementation and its performance evaluation are in Sections 4 and 5, followed by a suite of system optimization techniques, in Section 6.
For inferring the identity of the sensor node present at a particular location, the StarDust framework develops a constraint-based node ID relaxation algorithm.
Through image processing techniques, the locations of the retro-reflectors (i.e., sensor nodes) is  deter57 mined.
We propose a novel framework for node localization in WSNs that is very promising and allows for many future extensions and more accurate results.
A major step forward has been accomplished by  developing systems for several domains: military surveillance [1] [2] [3], habitat monitoring [4] and structural monitoring [5].
GPS ranging hardware consumes energy, it is  relatively expensive (if high accuracy is required) and poses form factor challenges that move us away from the vision of dust size sensor nodes.
The main contributions of our work are the following.
We evaluate the  performance of a localization system for which we obtain location accuracies of 2 − 5 ft with a localization duration ranging from 10 milliseconds to 2 minutes.
One vision is to embed tiny sensor devices in outdoor environments, by aerial  deployments from unmanned air vehicles.
Ultrasound has a short range and is highly directional.
The design of the  StarDust framework is presented in Section 3.
We propose a constraint-based label relaxation algorithm for mapping node IDs to the  locations, and four constraints (node, connectivity, time and space), which are building blocks for very accurate and very fast localization systems.
We develop a sensor node  hardware prototype, called a SensorBall.
Among these open problems is sensor node  localization, i.e., how to find the physical position of each sensor node.
The rest of the paper is structured as follows.
Solutions that use the radio transceiver for ranging either have not produced encouraging results (if the received signal strength indicator is used) or are sensitive to environment (e.g., multipath).
The basic principle of the framework is localization through passivity: each sensor node is equipped with a corner-cube retro-reflector and  possibly an optical filter (a coloring device).
Section 2 is an overview of the state of art.
Through collaboration, redundancy and fault tolerance, the WSN is then able to achieve  unprecedented sensing capabilities.
Despite the attention the localization problem in WSN has received, no universally acceptable solution has been  developed.
An aerial  vehicle projects light onto the deployment area and records  images containing retro-reflected light beams (they appear as luminous spots).
There are several reasons for this.
On one hand, localization schemes that use ranging are typically high end solutions.
Even after these successes, several research problems remain open.
In Section 7 we present our conclusions. 
