To address these limitations in current approaches, in this paper we present a multi-sequence positioning (MSP) method 15 for large-scale stationary sensor node localization, in  deployments where an event source has line-of-sight to all sensors.
• To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to improve the localization accuracy of nodes by adaptive events.
• We evaluate line-based MSP on our new Mirage test-bed, and wave-based MSP in outdoor environments.
The generation of later events is guided by  localization results from previous events.
Although range-based solutions can be  suitably used in small-scale indoor environments, they are  considered less cost-effective for large-scale deployments.
We argue that precise event distribution is difficult to achieve, especially at large scale when terrain is uneven, the event distribution  device is not well calibrated and its position is difficult to  maintain (e.g., the helicopter-mounted scenario in [20]).
This paper offers the following additional intellectual  contributions: • We are the first to localize sensor nodes using the concept of node sequence, an ordered list of sensor nodes, sorted by the detection time of a disseminated event.
On the other hand, range-free approaches [4, 8, 10, 13, 14, 15] do not require accurate distance measurements, but localize the node based on network connectivity (proximity) information.
Realizing the impracticality of existing solutions for the large-scale outdoor environment, researchers have recently proposed solutions (e.g., Spotlight [20] and Lighthouse [18]) for sensor node localization using the spatiotemporal  correlation of controlled events (i.e., inferring nodes" locations based on the detection time of controlled events).
Section 8 presents simulation results, and Section 9 reports an evaluation of MSP on the Mirage test-bed and an outdoor test-bed.
To reveal MSP performance at scale, we provide analytic results as well as a complete simulation study.
Unfortunately, since wireless connectivity is highly influenced by the environment and hardware calibration, existing solutions fail to deliver encouraging empirical results, or require substantial survey [2] and calibration [24] on a case-by-case basis.
The novel idea behind MSP is to estimate each sensor node"s two-dimensional location by processing multiple easy-to-get one-dimensional node sequences (e.g., event detection order) obtained through loosely-guided event distribution.
On the other hand, geometric information is  indispensable in these networks, since users need to know where events of interest occur (e.g., the location of intruders or of a bomb explosion).
Through system implementation, we discover and address several interesting issues such as partial sequence and sequence flips.
Range-based approaches [13, 17, 19, 24] compute per-node location information iteratively or recursively based on  measured distances among target nodes and a few anchors which precisely know their locations.
It works using sensors typically used by sensor  network applications, such as light and acoustic sensors, both of which we specifically consider in this work.
We  demonstrate that making full use of the information embedded in one-dimensional node sequences can significantly  improve localization accuracy.
One of these is to identify the location of  individual sensor nodes in outdoor environments.
These benefits, however, come along with an  implicit assumption that the controlled events can be precisely distributed to a specified location at a specified time.
Section 3 presents an overview of the MSP localization system.
• We propose a distribution-based location estimation  strategy that obtains the final location of sensor nodes using the marginal probability of joint distribution among  adjacent nodes within the sequence.
And third, compared to Spotlight, MSP does not require precise and sophisticated event distribution, an  advantage that significantly simplifies the system design and reduces calibration cost.
Previous research on node localization falls into two  categories: range-based approaches and range-free approaches.
Although Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN) have shown promising prospects in various applications [5], researchers still face several challenges for massive deployment of such networks.
All the simulation and implementation code is available online at http://www.cs.umn.edu/∼zhong/MSP.
Section 6 describes how MSP can be applied in a wave propagation scenario.
Second, compared to a range-free approach, MSP needs only a small number of anchors (theoretically, as few as two), so high accuracy can be achieved economically by introducing more events instead of more anchors.
Because of  unpredictable flow dynamics in airborne scenarios, it is not currently feasible to localize sensor nodes during massive UVA-based deployment.
This new algorithm  outperforms the widely adopted Centroid estimation [4, 8].
These solutions demonstrate that long range and high accuracy localization can be achieved simultaneously with little additional cost at  sensor nodes.
This design offers several benefits.
First, compared to a range-based approach, MSP does not require additional costly hardware.
In sections 4 and 5, basic MSP and four advanced processing methods are  introduced.
Interestingly, we discover that repeated reprocessing of one-dimensional node  sequences can further increase localization accuracy.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows.
These approaches generally require costly hardware (e.g., GPS) and have limited  effective range due to energy constraints (e.g., ultrasound-based TDOA [3, 17]).
Section 7 discusses several  implementation issues.
Section 10 concludes the paper.
Section 2 briefly surveys the related work.
