Unlike the straight-line scan, the critical parameter now is the location of the event source, because the distance between each node and the event source determines the rank of the node in the sequence.
Since sequence-based MSP, iterative MSP and DBE MSP make no assumptions about the type of localization events and the shape of the area, all three optimization algorithms can be applied for the wave  propagation scenario.
So far, the description of MSP has been solely in the  context of straight-line scan.
In Figure 11, if the next event breaks out along/near the solid thick gray line, which perpendicularly bisects the solid dark line between anchor C and the center of gravity of node 9"s area (the gray area), the wave would reach anchor C and the center of gravity of node 9"s area at roughly the same time, which would relatively equally divide node 9"s area.
1 3 5 9 Target node Anchor node Previous Event location A 2 Center of Gravity 4 8 7 B 6 C A line of preferred locations for next event Figure 11.
However, we note that MSP is  conceptually independent of how the event is propagated as long as node sequences can be obtained.
The parameter that affects the localization event generation here is the source location of the event.
Each node is  located in one of the small areas.
The different  distances between each node and the event source determine the rank of each node in the node sequence.
Reflection and deflection are not problems because each node reacts only to the first detected event.
This section illustrates the effects of MSP"s implementation in the wave propagation-based situation.
The previous two propagations split the whole map into many areas by those dashed circles that pass one of the anchors.
The only thing the  system needs to maintain is an appropriate time interval  between two successive localization events.
In this figure, the stars represent two previous event sources.
For easy modelling, we have made the following assumptions: • The wave propagates uniformly in all directions,  therefore the propagation has a circle frontier surface.
Using the node  sequences, the MSP algorithm divides the whole area into many non-rectangular areas as shown in Figure 11.
Figure 11 illustrates an example of nodes" voting for next event source locations.
Since MSP does not rely on an accurate space-time relationship, a certain distortion in wave propagation is tolerable.
Example of Wave Propagation Situation • Under the situation of line-of-sight, we allow obstacles to reflect or deflect the wave.
Clearly, we can also  support wave-propagation-based events (e.g., ultrasound  propagation, air blast propagation), which are polar coordinate  equivalences of the line scans in the Cartesian coordinate system.
Those reflected or deflected waves come later than the line-of-sight waves.
If any directional wave is used, the propagation frontier surface can be modified accordingly.
• We assume that background noise exists, and therefore we run a band-pass filter to listen to a particular wave  frequency.
This reduces the chances of false detection.
Therefore, node 9 prefers to vote for the positions around the thick gray line.
However, adaptive MSP needs more explanation.
