This solution is based on the fact that nodes have a high probability of flipping in the sequence if they are near to each other along the event propagation direction.
In a practical implementation, supposing that the ultrasound event is used, if the maximum error of system time synchronization is 1ms, two nodes might flip with high  probability if the timestamp difference between the two nodes is smaller than or equal to 1ms.
In the left side of Figure 13(a), suppose node 1 and node 2 are so close to each other that it takes less than 0.5ms for the localization event to propagate from node 1 to node 2.
Secondly, since in advanced MSP each node in the sequence may contribute to the overall system accuracy, dropping of target nodes from sequences could also reduce the accuracy of the localization.
Then, when the node detects the localization event, it assembles itself into the newest node sequence it has heard and reports the updated sequence to other nodes.
The basic idea of protection band is to extend the boundary of the location area a little bit so as to make sure that the node will never be erased from the map.
In the case of using the listen-detect-assemble-report  protocol, the only change we need to make is to select the protection band according to the maximum delay uncertainty introduced by the MAC operation and the event propagation speed.
For the sake of presentation, until now we have described MSP in an ideal case where a complete node sequence can be obtained with accurate time synchronization.
The  sequence propagates in the same direction with the scan as shown in Figure 12 (a).
Therefore, we can comfortably assume that the network is synchronized with maximum error of 1000µs.
In this case, the location area still covers node 1 and protects it from being erased.
First, if these nodes are still be useful to sensing  applications, they need to use other backup localization  approaches (e.g., Centroid) to localize themselves with help from their neighbors who have already learned their own locations from MSP.
22 1 2 12 2 Lower boundary of 1 Upper boundary of 1 Flipped Sequence Fatal Elimination Error EventPropagation 1 1 Fatal Error 1 1 2 12 2 Lower boundary of 1 Upper boundary of 1 Flipped Sequence Safe Elimination EventPropagation 1 1 New lower boundary of 1 1 B (a) (b) B: Protection band Figure 13.
Therefore the 1,2,5,4 1,3,7,4 1,2,3,5 1,2,3,5,7,4 1,2,3,5,7 1,2,3,5 1,3 1,2 1 2 3 5 7 4 6 1 1 1,3 1,2,3,5,7,4,6 1,2,5 1,3,7 1,3 1,2 1 2 3 5 7 4 6 1 1 1,3,7,4,6 1,2,5,4,6 (a) (b) (c) 1,3,2,5 1,3,2,5,7,4 1,3,2,5,7 1,3,2,5 1,3 1,2 1 2 3 5 7 4 6 1 1 1,3 1,3,2,5,7,4,6 Event Propagation Event Propagation Event Propagation Figure 12.
During the subsequent  eliminations introduced by other events, node 1"s area might be cut off completely, thus node 1 could consequently be erased from the map!
The sequence flip problem would appear even in an accurately synchronized system due to random jitter in node detection if an event arrives at multiple nodes almost simultaneously.
Node 1 detects the event, and then it broadcasts the sequence (1) into the network.
As shown in Figure 12 (c), because node 2 and node 3 are too close to each other along the scan direction, they detect the scan  almost simultaneously.
Instead of eliminating the dashed part in Figure 13(a) for node 1, the new lower boundary of node 1 is set by shifting the  original lower boundary of node 2 to the left by distance B.
For instance, if the distance between two nodes along one direction is 10 meters, the 340m/s sound needs 29.4ms to propagate from one node to the other.
In this case, since the two sequences can only be processed as  separate sequences, some order information is lost.
The width of a protection band B, is largely determined by the maximum error in system time synchronization and the localization event propagation speed.
Node Sequence without Time Synchronization accuracy of the system would decrease.
listen-detect-assemble-report requires that every node  listens to the channel for the node sequence transmitted from its neighbors.
However, when multiple nodes are located very near to each other along the event propagation  direction, even when time synchronization with less than 1ms error is achieved in the network, sequence flip may still occur.
This is a potentially fatal error, because node 1 is actually located in the dashed area which has been eliminated by mistake.
Two separate paths in the network may result in two sequences that could not be further combined.
Now unfortunately, the node sequence is mistaken to be (2,1).
So node 1 is expected to be located to the right of node 2, such as at the position of the dashed node 1.
7.2 Localization without Time Synchronization In a sensor network without time synchronization support, nodes cannot be ordered into a sequence using timestamps.
Due to the sequence flip, node 1 loses this new upper boundary.
While normally the communication data rate is 250Kbps in the WSN (e.g., CC2420 [1]), it takes only about 2 ∼ 3 ms to transmit an assembled packet for one hop.
In the case of ultrasound propagation, because the event propagation speed is much slower than that of radio, the  listendetect-assemble-report protocol can work well in a situation where the node density is not very high.
If we get the right node sequence (1,2), node 1 has a new upper boundary which can narrow the area of node 1 as in Figure 3.
When node 2 detects the event, node 2 adds itself into the sequence and broadcasts (1, 2).
In order to address the sequence flip problem, especially to prevent nodes from being erased from the map, we propose a protection band compensation approach.
• Target nodes are missing in the node sequence There are two consequences when target nodes are  missing.
To bound MAC delay at the node side, a node can drop its report message if it experiences excessive MAC delay.
This problem has two versions: • Anchor nodes are missing in the node sequence If some anchor nodes fail to respond to the localization events, then the system has fewer anchors.
For example, if node 3 sends out its report first, then the order of node 2 and node 3 gets flipped in the final node sequence.
Even in cases where node 1 still survives, its area actually does not cover its real location.
In such cases, the node sequence will not be complete.
By adding the protection band, we reduce the chances of fatal errors, although at the cost of localization  accuracy.
For example, in the sound wave propagation case, if two nodes are less than 0.34 meters apart, the difference between their detection timestamp would be smaller than 1 millisecond.
21 7.1 Incomplete Node Sequence For diverse reasons, such as sensor malfunction or natural obstacles, the nodes in the network could fail to detect  localization events.
In this case, the solution is to generate more events to compensate for the loss of anchors so as to achieve the desired accuracy requirements.
For simplicity, in this figure we did not differentiate the target nodes from anchor nodes.
Existing solutions for time  synchronization [12, 6] can easily achieve sub-millisecond-level  accuracy.
Sequence Flip and Protection Band Another problem is not fatal but lowers the localization  accuracy.
For such cases, we propose a listen-detect-assemble-report  protocol, which is able to function independently without time  synchronization.
According to the elimination rule in  sequencebased MSP, the left part of node 1"s area is cut off as shown in the right part of Figure 13(a).
One problem that may occur using the  listen-detectassemble-report protocol is multiple partial sequences as shown in Figure 12 (b).
If two nodes are apart from each other more than some distance, say, B, they rarely flip unless the nodes are faulty.
Due to the uncertainty such as media access delay, two messages could be transmitted out of order.
We find that sequence flip could not only damage system  accuracy, but also might cause a fatal error in the MSP algorithm.
For example, FTSP [12] achieves 16.9µs (microsecond) average error for a two-node single-hop case.
Accordingly, we set the  protection band B as 0.34m (the distance sound can propagate within 1 millisecond).
Node 2 and node 3 receive this sequence.
Finally, node 6 obtains a complete sequence (1,2,3,5,7,4,6).
Thus, proper compensation procedures such as adding more  localization events need to be launched.
We firstly start with a scenario  applying time synchronization.
This converts the sequence flip problem to the incomplete sequence problem, which can be more easily addressed by the method proposed in Section 7.1.
7.3 Sequence Flip and Protection Band Sequence flip problems can be solved with and without time synchronization.
A solid line between two nodes stands for a communication link.
The other problem is the sequence flip problem.
A method addressing the sequence flip is presented in the next section.
In this section we describe how to make MSP work well under more realistic conditions.
Suppose a straight line scans from left to right.
Figure 12 (a) illustrates an example for the listen-detect-assemble-report protocol.
Figure 13(b) presents the application of the protection band.
Empirical results obtained from our physical test-bed verified this conclusion.
Figure 13 illustrates both detrimental results.
