unlike anchor-free  solutions, msp doesn"t need to maintain rigid time-space  relationships while distributing events, which makes system design simpler, more flexible and more robust to calibration errors.
msp uses only a small number of anchors (theoretically, as few as two).
unlike anchor-based solutions [4, 8], msp allows a flexible tradeoff between the physical cost (anchor nodes) with the soft 16 1 a b 2 3 4 5 target nodeanchor node 1a 5 3 b2 4 1 b2 5a 43 1a25b4 3 1 52 ab 4 3 1 2 3 5 4 (b) (c)(d) (a) event 1 node sequence generated by event 1 event 3 node sequence generated by event 2 node sequence generated by event 3 node sequence generated by event 4 event 2 event 4 figure 1. the msp system overview cost (localization events).
in this paper, we propose a balanced solution that avoids the limitations of both anchor-based and anchor-free solutions.
due to the environmental impact on rf connectivity constraints, however, stardust is less accurate than spotlight.
label relaxation  algorithms converge only when a sufficient number of robust constraints are obtained.
stardust [21], which works much faster, uses label relaxation algorithms to match light spots  reflected by corner-cube retro-reflectors (ccr) with sensor nodes using various constraints.
all these increase system cost and reduce  localization speed.
precise event distribution is difficult to achieve without careful calibration,  especially when the event-generating devices require certain mechanical maneuvers (e.g., the telescope mount used in spotlight).
in spotlight [20], the event distribution needs to be  precise in both time and space.
spotlight [20] and lighthouse [18] work in this fashion.
the main idea is to correlate the event detection time at a sensor node with the known space-time  relationship of controlled events at the generator so that detection time-stamps can be mapped into the locations of sensors.
instead, external event generators and data processing platforms are used.
• anchor-free solutions require no anchor nodes.
in practice, it is desirable to have as few anchor nodes as possible so as to lower the system cost.
anchor-based solutions normally require a high density of anchor nodes so as to achieve good accuracy.
different anchor combinations narrow the areas in which the target nodes can possibly be located.
• for anchor-based solutions such as centroid [4], apit [8], serloc [10], gradient [13] , and aps [15], the main idea is that the location of each node is estimated based on the known locations of the anchor nodes.
range-free  methods can be generally classified into two types: anchor-based and anchor-free solutions.
instead, anchors or controlled-event distributions are used for node localization.
range-free methods don"t need to estimate or measure  accurate distances or angles.
this ranging technique performs very well as long as antennas are well oriented and  environmental factors such as multi-path effects and background noise are sufficiently addressed.
the recently proposed rips localization system [11] superimposes two rf waves together, creating a low-frequency envelope that can be accurately measured.
although the received signal strength  indicator (rssi) related [2, 24] methods were once considered an ideal low-cost solution, the irregularity of radio  propagation [26] seriously limits the accuracy of such systems.
consequently, these range-based solutions require an undesirably high  deployment density.
for example, ultrasound signals usually effectively propagate 20-30 feet using an on-board transmitter [17].
in addition, ranging signals generated by sensor nodes have a very limited effective range because of energy and form factor concerns.
constraints on the cost, energy and hardware footprint of each sensor node make these range-based  methods undesirable for massive outdoor deployment.
range-based localization systems, such as gps [23], cricket [17], ahlos [19], aoa [16], robust  quadrilaterals [13] and sweeps [7], are based on fine-grained  point-topoint distance estimation or angle estimation to identify  pernode location.
most of these can be  classified into two categories: range-based and range-free  localization.
many methods have been proposed to localize wireless  sensor devices in the open air.
