1 a 2 3 4 5 b c 6 7 8 9 straight-line scan 1 straight-linescan2 8 1 5 a 6 c 4 3 7 2 b 9 3 1 c 5 9 2 a 4 6 b 7 8 target node anchor node figure 2. obtaining multiple node sequences
then, we describe how to  implement straight-line scans as well as other event types, such as sound wave propagation.
to introduce the msp algorithm, we first consider a simple straight-line scan scenario.
• realistic deployment, in which (i) node sequences can be partial (incomplete), (ii) elements in sequences could flip (i.e., the order obtained is reversed from reality), and (iii) nodes are not time-synchronized.
for the sake of clarity in presentation, we present our system in two cases: • ideal case, in which all the node sequences obtained from the network are complete and correct, and nodes are time-synchronized [12, 9].
in addition, this system does not require a rigid time-space relationship for the localization events, which is critical but hard to achieve in controlled event distribution  scenarios (e.g., spotlight [20]).
figure 1 shows that the node sequences can be obtained much more economically than accurate pair-wise distance measurements between target nodes and anchor nodes via  ranging methods.
finally, a  distributionbased estimation method estimates the exact location of each sensor node, as shown in figure 1(d).
second, a multi-sequence processing algorithm helps to narrow the possible location of each node to a small area (figure 1(c)).
each node sequence includes both the targets and the anchors as shown in figure 1(b).
for a single event, we call the ordering of nodes, which is based on the sequential detection of the event, a node  sequence.
as each event propagates, as shown in figure 1(a), each node detects it at some particular time  instance.
first, events are generated one at a time in the network area (e.g., ultrasound propagations from different locations, laser scans with diverse angles).
briefly, the msp system works as follows.
target nodes are defined as the nodes to be localized.
figure 1(a) shows a layout of a sensor network with anchor nodes and target nodes.
msp works by extracting relative location information from multiple simple one-dimensional orderings of nodes.
