In this section we describe extensions of the proposed 
architecture that can constitute future research directions.
6.1 Chained Constraint Primitives
In this paper we proposed four primitives for 
constraintbased relaxation algorithms: color, connectivity, time and
space. To demonstrate the power that can be obtained by
combining them, we proposed and evaluated one 
combination of such primitives: color and connectivity. An 
interesting research direction to pursue could be to chain more than
two of these primitives. An example of such chain is: color,
temporal, spatial and connectivity. Other research directions
could be to use voting scheme for deciding which primitive
to use or assign different weights to different relaxation 
algorithms.
69
6.2 Location Learning
If after several iterations of the algorithm, none of the 
label probabilities for a node ni converges to a higher value, the
confidence in our labeling of that node is relatively low. It
would be interesting to associate with a node, more than one
label (implicitly more than one location) and defer the label
assignment decision until events are detected in the network
(if the network was deployed for target tracking).
6.3 Localization in Rugged Environments
The initial driving force for the StarDust localization
framework was to address the sensor node localization in 
extremely rugged environments. Canopies, dense vegetation,
extremely obstructing environments pose significant 
challenges for sensor nodes localization. The hope, and our 
original idea, was to consider the time period between the aerial
deployment and the time when the sensor node disappears
under the canopy. By recording the last visible position of a
sensor node (as seen from the aircraft) a reasonable estimate
of the sensor node location can be obtained. This would
require that sensor nodes posses self-righting capabilities,
while in mid-air. Nevertheless, we remark on the suitability
of our localization framework for rugged, non-line-of-sight
environments.
