In this setting, we show that designing optimal deterministic mechanisms is NP-complete in two important special cases: when the center is interested only in the payments made to it, and when payments are not possible and the center is interested only in the outcome chosen.
Finally, we show that the payment-maximizing AMD problem is closely related to an interesting variant of the optimal  (revenuemaximizing) combinatorial auction design problem, where the bidders have best-only preferences.
Mechanism design is the art of designing the rules of the game so that the agents are motivated to report their  preferences truthfully, and a desirable outcome is chosen.
This has several advantages, but the downside is that the mechanism design optimization  problem needs to be solved anew each time.
We then show how allowing for randomization in the mechanism makes problems in this setting computationally easy.
Often, an outcome must be chosen on the basis of the  preferences reported by a group of agents.
We show that here, too, designing an optimal deterministic auction is  NPcomplete, but designing an optimal randomized auction is easy.
In this case, the center cares only about which outcome is chosen and what payments are made to it.
In a recently proposed approach-called automated mechanism design-a mechanism is computed for the preference  aggregation setting at hand.
The key difficulty is that the agents may report their preferences insincerely to make the chosen outcome more favorable to themselves.
Unlike the earlier work on automated mechanism design that studied a  benevolent designer, in this paper we study automated mechanism design problems where the designer is self-interested.
The reason that the agents" preferences are relevant is that the center is  constrained to making each agent at least as well off as the agent would have been had it not participated in the mechanism.
Categories and Subject Descriptors F.2 [Theory of Computation]: Analysis of Algorithms and Problem Complexity; J.4 [Computer Applications]: Social and Behavioral Sciences-Economics General Terms Algorithms, Economics, Theory
